**Reading isn't intrinsically good.**

Reading is just tracing in pen what the author has already written in pencil. 
There is no learning being done because there is no independent thinking 
occuring. Reading then can make you stupid: if you continuously let someone 
else think for you, you forget how to think yourself. 
If reading is leisurely and pleasing, then you're probably not thinking very 
hard. Most authors write superfluously to better explain themselves (hence the 
popular addage about books being too long). Find some other way to think so 
deeply that reading becomes arduous.

Reading a lot means that you're less likely to remember what you've read. Your 
brain is being overwritten continuously.

Assume that the vast majority of books were written only to make money. Most 
of these are not worth your time. Never read a book because it is popular - 
ignore political, religious, or contemporary works. Bad books are intellectual 
poison; they destroy the mind. To read what is good, one must make it a 
condition never to read what is bad.

Popular books are popular with the foolish majority. Refuse these and seek the 
books written by the rarest of minds, of all times and countries. Read only 
books written by people who live for science or poetry. There will rarely be 
more than a dozen great book per century. Read these many times over and avoid 
the others.

People are quick to read works about great thinkers but rarely read the works 
of great thinkers. This is because it is easier to let someone modern take over 
your thinking than it is to work hard at translating an ancient's thoughts. 
Refuse this compromise at all costs. Read Essays by Montaigne not A Life of 
Montaigne by Bakewell.

Immediately read an important book twice. You can only really understand the 
beginning after you know the end. Your mood will be different the second time 
through so you'll even pick up a different perspecitve.
